v6 blog post (#103)
chainer/chainer.org: _posts/2019-05-16-released-v6.md

---
title: Released Chainer/CuPy v6.0.0
layout: post
categories: Announcement
author: Seiya Tokui
---

We have released Chainer and CuPy v6.0.0 today!
This is a major release that introduces several new features.
Full updates can be found in the release notes: [Chainer](https://github.com/chainer/chainer/releases/tag/v6.0.0), [CuPy](https://github.com/cupy/cupy/releases/tag/v6.0.0).

## ChainerX

The biggest update is the introduction of **ChainerX**.
It is a fast and portable ndarray engine with autograd support written in C++ with very thin Python wrapper.

We have released the beta version of ChainerX in v6.0.0b1 as we wrote in the [previous blog post](https://chainer.org/announcement/2018/12/03/chainerx.html).
Since then, we have been working on improving it in various aspects.
In particular, ChainerX in v6.0.0 expands the coverage of various features since v6.0.0b1.

> - **More op coverage**.

Reviewer: I think this is a more common way to put it. Ditto for the following similar occurrences.
```suggestion
- **Wider op coverage**.
```

>   We have more and more Chainer functions that directly call ChainerX's low-overhead implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We have more Chainer functions that directly call ChainerX's low-overhead implementation.
```

  The effort is still on going at [the tracking issue](https://github.com/chainer/chainer/issues/6423) with [the spreadsheet of op-wise implementation status](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1B4E78tw9Awgpcdn5G7zsQ8NVFYJdOoJlIQg42QxKNfU).

>   We continue expanding the op coverage towards next v7 release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We continue to expand the op coverage towards the next v7 release.
```

  Contributions are always welcomed!
- **More Function coverage**.

>   Most users will start using ChainerX through Chainer's existing interface (just by replacing NumPy/CuPy array with ChainerX array).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Most users will start using ChainerX through Chainer's existing interface (just by replacing NumPy/CuPy arrays with ChainerX arrays).
```

  When ChainerX does not have an implementation for an operation, Chainer automatically falls back to NumPy/CuPy-based implementation.
  It basically works without any fix for most functions, but sometimes not.
  We are fixing such bugs to enlarge the coverage of functions for ChainerX usage.

>   The effort is accompanied with the introduction of new simplistic test fixtures for function tests (you can find [the tracking issue](https://github.com/chainer/chainer/issues/6071)).

Reviewer: I'm not too familiar with "simplistic" but is it suitable here? Otherwise, I'd think of.
```suggestion
  The effort is accompanied by the introduction of a test fixture class for function tests  (you can find [the tracking issue](https://github.com/chainer/chainer/issues/6071)).
```

>   The current test coverage is over 40%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The current test coverage is over 40%, mostly basic array operations resembling routines in NumPy and operations commonly used in convolutional neural networks such as convolution, deconvolution and pooling. Operations for recurrent neural networks will be addressed in the upcoming releases.
```

>   The current test coverage is over 40%, mostly basic array operations resembling routines in NumPy and operations commonly used in convolutional neural networks such as convolution, deconvolution and pooling. Operations for recurrent neural networks will be addressed in the upcoming releases.

Reviewer 2: `test coverage` is unclear/confusing for me because https://coveralls.io/github/chainer/chainer says 86% as of 2019/05/14 21:36.
Is there some test to measure how much ChainerX covers features/operations implemented in Chainer?

Author: Ah, I meant for this number that 40% of the functions under `chainer.functions` are already tested with ChainerX array inputs. I will consider rephrasing the sentence to make this point clearer.

Author: I modified the sentences.

  We hope the coverage will reach 100% in v7.
  Contributions are always welcomed here, too!
- **More example coverage**.
  Most examples now support ChainerX.

>   By specifying ChainerX's device names (e.g. `native` for CPU and `cuda:0`, `cuda:1`, ... for GPU), examples run with ChainerX arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By specifying ChainerX's device names (e.g. `native` for CPU and `cuda:0`, `cuda:1`, ... for GPUs), examples run with ChainerX arrays.
```

  It also means that the coverage of ChainerX support in Chainer's features in general is expanding.

You can find the [previous blog post](https://chainer.org/announcement/2018/12/03/chainerx.html) for its background and overview,
 and [ChainerX Documentation](https://docs.chainer.org/en/v6.0.0/chainerx/index.html) for the installation guide, tutorial, and reference.

## Other updates

This release also includes many features other than ChainerX.
We list up notable updates as follows.

- **More mixed precision support**.
  Chainer v6 introduces _mixed precision mode_ and _dynamic loss scaling_ for better support of mixed precision training.
  Mixed precision mode is enabled by setting `CHAINER_DTYPE=mixed16` or `chainer.global_config.dtype = chainer.mixed16`.

>   In this mode, Chainer automatically chooses either of `float16` or `float32` which is appropriate for performance and precision balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In this mode, Chainer automatically chooses either `float16` or `float32` depending on what is appropriate in terms of a performance-to-precision tradeoff.
```

  Dynamic loss scaling, originated from [Apex](https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex), automatically adjusts the scaling coefficient of backprop to avoid underflow.
- **Device API**.
  We introduce a new device API for better interoperability between backends (including ChainerX).

>   It unifies the way to specify a device and transfer data between devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It unifies the way in which devices are specified and data is transferred between devices.
```

>   In particular, unified device specifier is introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In particular, a unified device specifier is introduced.
```

>   It is based on ChainerX's device specifier of format `'backend:id'`, e.g. `'native:0'` and `'cuda:N'` (where `N` is the CUDA device id).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is based on ChainerX's device specifier of the format `'backend:id'`, e.g. `'native:0'` and `'cuda:N'` (where `N` is the CUDA device id).
```

  For native (CPU), the id part can be omitted (like `'native'`).

>   For conventional devices backed by NumPy-like modules, the name is like `@numpy`, `@cupy:N`, and `@intel64`.

Reviewer: Since "like" is also used in the sentence above, and it's a bit informal.
```suggestion
  For conventional devices backed by NumPy-like modules, the name is `@numpy`, `@cupy:N`, and `@intel64`.
```

  This notation can be used, e.g., in the `to_device` function.
  Note that the existing APIs related to devices (e.g. `to_cpu` and `to_gpu`) are still available.

> - **__array_function__ in CuPy**.

Reviewer: Maybe no backticks in headers?
```suggestion
- **`__array_function__` in CuPy**.
```

>   NumPy's `__array_function__` is an experimental feature for letting NumPy dispatch implementations of almost all functions for third-party duck arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  NumPy's `__array_function__` is an experimental feature for letting NumPy dispatch implementations of almost all functions to third-party duck arrays.
```
